# List out different OOPS principles and explain

## Answer:

**Principles of object-oriented programming**

There are the four main principles of the object-oriented programming paradigm. Understanding them is essential to becoming a successful programmer.

1. Encapsulation
2. Inheritance
3. Abstraction
4. Polymorphism

**Encapsulation**

Encapsulation is a process of wrapping code and data together into a single unit.

It's just like a capsule that contains a mix of several medicines, and is a technique that helps keep instance variables protected.

This can be achieved by using private access modifiers that can’t be accessed by anything outside the class. In order to access private states safely, we have to provide public getter and setter methods.

**Inheritance**

Inheritance is a mechanism in which one object acquires all the states and behaviors of a parent object.

Inheritances expresses “is-a” and/or “has-a” relationship between two objects. Using Inheritance, In derived classes we can reuse the code of existing super classes. In Java, concept of “is-a” is based on class inheritance (usingextends) or interface implementation (usingimplements).For example,FileInputStream"is-a"InputStreamthat reads from a file

So what exactly is inherited?
Visibility/access modifiers impact what gets inherited from one class to another.

1. public instance methods.

2. private instance variables (private instance variables can be accessed only through public getter and setter methods).

**Abstraction**

Abstraction is a process of hiding the implementation details and showing only functionality to the user.
A common example of abstraction is that pressing the accelerator will increase the speed of a car. But the driver doesn’t know how pressing the accelerator increases the speed – they don't have to know that.

Technically abstract means something incomplete or to be completed later.

In a real world scenario, the implementation will be provided by someone who is unknown to end users. Users don’t know the implementation class and the actual implementation.

**Polymorphism**

Polymorphism is the ability of an object to take on many forms.

Polymorphism in OOP occurs when a super class references a sub class object.

We can access an object through a reference variable. A reference variable can be of only one type. Once declared, the type of a reference variable cannot be changed.

A reference variable can be declared as a class or interface type.

A single object can be referred to by reference variables of many different types as long as they are the same type or a super type of the object.
