## Questions 8: What happens when you type www.attainu.com in the web browser.

## Answer:

Let's understand the different actions that are being perform by network and browser when we enter www.attainu.com:

1. First and foremost thing that happen is that the browser checks the cache for a DNS record to find the corresponding IP address of www.attainu.com. The browser maintains a repository of DNS records for a fixed duration for websites you have previously visited. So, it is the first place to run a DNS query. DNS(Domain Name System) is a database that maintains the name of the website (URL) and the particular IP address it links to

2. The browser will now check the OS cache. If it is not in the browser cache, the browser will make a system call (i.e., gethostname on Windows) to your underlying computer OS to fetch the record since the OS also maintains a cache of DNS records. If it’s not on your computer, the browser will communicate with the router that maintains its’ own cache of DNS records.If all steps fail, the browser will move on to the ISP. Your ISP maintains its’ own DNS server, which includes a cache of DNS records, which the browser would check with the last hope of finding your requested URL.

3. If the requested URL is not in the cache, ISP’s DNS server initiates a DNS query to find the IP address of the server that hosts www.attainu.com.The purpose of a DNS query is to search multiple DNS servers on the internet until it finds the correct IP address for the website. This type of search is called a recursive search since the search will repeatedly continue from a DNS server to a DNS server until it either finds the IP address we need or returns an error response saying it was unable to find it.

4. Once the browser receives the correct IP address, it will build a connection with the server that matches the IP address to transfer information. Browsers use internet protocols to build such connections. There are several different internet protocols that can be used, but TCP is the most common protocol used for many types of HTTP requests.

5. Once the TCP connection is established, it is time to start transferring data! The browser will send a GET request asking for www.attainu.com web page. If you’re entering credentials or submitting a form, this could be a POST request. It will also pass information taken from cookies the browser has in store for this domain.

6. The server contains a webserver that receives the request from the browser and passes it to a request handler to read and generate a response. The request handler is a program that reads the request, its’ headers, and cookies to check what is being requested and also update the information on the server if needed. Then it will assemble a response in a particular format (JSON, XML, HTML).

7. The server response contains the web page you requested as well as the status code, compression type (Content-Encoding), how to cache the page (Cache-Control), any cookies to set, privacy information, etc.

8. The browser displays the HTML content in phases. First, it will render the bare bone HTML skeleton. Then it will check the HTML tags and send out GET requests for additional elements on the web page, such as images, CSS stylesheets, JavaScript files, etc. These static files are cached by the browser, so it doesn’t have to fetch them again the next time you visit the page. In the end, you’ll see www.attainu.com appearing on your browser.
