## Q5. Describe pagination in brief.

## Answer:

Pagination is a method of dividing web content into discrete pages, thus presenting content in a limited and digestible manner. ... Google search results page is a typical example of such a search
Pagination is an ordinal numbering of pages, which is usually located at the top or bottom of the site pages.
In most cases, it is used for main pages and partitions.

Pagination makes users’ life simpler and more convenient when it comes to distributing products on the website in a measured manner. Imagine an eCommerce website with a catalog consists of several hundred products of different categories placed on one single page. Will that confuse the user? Definitely.

The most value you gain from pagination is enhancing the speed of your application by:
1 - Limiting data transmitted between the client and the server.
2 - There is no point to read 1000000 customers if the user is looking for 10 of them. ...
3 - Pagination helps by providing more fresh data.

Pagination has many advantages and not using the pagination may cause some serious speed issues in your website if you have a very large amount of content in the database.

Using pagination, we can seperate the contents in chunks and display one at a time. This essentially increases the website speed and performance as it reduces the load of querying and fetching all the data at once along with displaying it in the portal. Dividing the data makes it easy to fast, efficient and easy to read.
